Start with the TRT dose on a daily
basis. Like you'll probably be able to
grow to an incredible degree. I mean, I
don't know. Neither of us are going to
be, you know, at the next Mr. Olympia,
but we're in good shape.
>> small.
>> No. And I, you know, it works really
well for us. I I think we're probably
more what the typical person is looking
for.
>> I feel much healthier on it. Fun fact, I
was actually dealing with a couple liver
enzyme issues from prior bodybuilding.
Just if you look me up, I was doing a
lot of I was professional bodybuilder
and it's what it was. We were competing
professionally. My liver was in rehab.
It is what it was. That being said,
>> You were in a documentary about it,
actually.
>> Oh, yeah. We put on 20 lbs of muscle in
30 days. That in and of itself should
let you know
>> And that wasn't going on.
>> That wasn't enhanced.
>> It wasn't enhanced. That's what the
documentary was called. It was called
Enhanced. Anyway, that was a success,
but to fast forward, I was trying to
recover my liver enzymes to get them
into a normal range. When I was on a
typical SIP, I could not manage to get
them in the right range. And as soon as
I switched over to the oral testosterone
therapy,
my liver rehabbed in about 2 months. 60
days.
>> Hi. My name's John Jaquish. I'm a doctor
of biomedical engineering, which gives
me a unique perspective beyond what you
typically see on social media with the
sports performance guys. They're the
ones that are typically making content,
and I think I have a different, unique,
and maybe even more valuable perspective
depending on what you think of what I'm
going to say. So, today I want to talk
about Nandrogen,
which is a fast-acting testosterone
product. And the two of us, this is my
good friend Akash,
the two of us have been on this for 3
years. You know, we were in development
of it. The first couple of versions of
it weren't quite as polished as it is
now. For a while it was suspended with
something that tasted like lemonade, and
then
>> It was pretty good.
>> It was suspended with something else
that tasted like feet.
>> It would burn a little bit.
>> Yeah.
>> It got the job done.
>> Yeah. But uh now now I think it's you
know it's a perfected product. It's
branded now. It's
it's uh for sale at oralonly.com. But
NandroGen is fast-acting testosterone
that gives you
the benefits of TRT
without injections. So you squirt it
under your tongue. Now it'll outperform
regular TRT and we'll get to that. But
tell me about your experiences for 3
years.
>> Of course. Uh first of all, no needle.
That right there, huge victory. You just
wake up in the morning in alignment with
your natural circadian rhythm. So
testosterone is naturally high in the
morning. So I really liked that because
it would taper off midday and then it
was low at night. So my thought process
was always, "Wow, not only is this no
needle, but also I'm moving in tandem
with how the body would naturally
produce testosterone."
Seems like a net positive versus as you
think about
a cypionate, which is a typical TRT
protocol.
200 mg cypionate, some doctors are kind
of a little bit more privy to a a
slightly better way of doing it. They'll
have you do two injections a week, but
usually it's one.
You end up with just super mega high
testosterone 24/7 around the clock and a
lot of it just converts into estrogen
then you have to take an estrogen
blocker.
>> Well, you're you're never supposed to
have high
>> testosterone at night. So I Right.
>> This this is out of an an old study, but
this is where on the graph of NandroGen
I I got that I got this from like an
old, you know, 1990 study which shows
what your testosterone is supposed to
look like throughout the day. Well, if
this is what it's supposed to look like
throughout the day, do you think a
weekly shot is going to solve your
problem? No, a weekly shot's going to
screw you all up, which is what we've
been dealing with with standard TRT. And
honestly, steroid cycles are
equally as nonsensical. Like it would be
like we're not going to tell people
Well, but is it? Hang on. Hang on. If If
somebody wanted to use a super
physiologic dose, instead of like let's
say somebody
we're not going to recommend doing such
a thing cuz it's unhealthy. But, let's
say somebody walked through the door and
they were just absolutely compelled, I
want to do a high level of you know
androgenic anabolic compound and I want
to get the most out of it because I just
want to be a mutant.
>> Sure.
>> Yeah, and there are people out there
like that. And first of all, what I
would say is
do not
run a standard steroid cycle. Instead,
start with a TRT dose on a daily basis.
Like you'll probably be able to grow to
an incredible degree. I mean, I don't
know. Neither of us are going to be, you
know, at the next Mr. Olympia, but we're
in good shape.
>> We're not small.
>> No. No.
Uh and and I you know, it works really
well for us. I I think we're probably
more what the typical person is looking
for.
>> I feel much healthier on it. Fun fact, I
was actually dealing with a couple liver
enzyme issues from prior bodybuilding.
Just if you look me up, I was doing a
lot of I was a professional bodybuilder.
It is what it was. We were competing
professionally. Liver was in rehab. It
is what it was. That being said
>> You were in a documentary about it,
actually.
>> Yeah, we put on 20 lbs of muscle in 30
days. That in and of itself should But,
you know
>> That wasn't going on. That wasn't
enhanced.
>> enhanced. That's what the documentary
was called. It was called enhanced.
Anyway, that was a success, but
to fast forward, I was trying to recover
my liver enzymes to get them into a
normal range. When I was on a typical
Cypionate, I could not manage to get
them in the right range. And as soon as
I switched over to the oral testosterone
therapy
my liver rehabbed in about 2 months. 60
days.
>> And it's interesting because
you weren't taking any oral steroids.
>> No.
>> I don't Did you ever take oral steroids?
>> I have in the past in the past prior
competitions, but but just the sheer
weight of putting on that 20 lbs of
muscle in that 30 days, that was a huge
load on the body and the liver as you
know.
>> Yeah, yeah.
For anybody who goes back and looks at
that movie and they see your general
appearance right now and energy
>> Add 30 lbs to this.
>> You you almost
You almost look like you were falling
asleep though.
>> I was very tired though.
>> Because you were just like yeah, just
breathing was like laborious.
>> Oh, yeah. I almost got a CPAP machine to
sleep at night. So just to put that in
perspective.
So my liver was was troubled and I just
could not get in range because it was
such an abnormal My liver was still
working from a stressed place to
disperse and handle testosterone being
high and 24/7.
>> Yeah. The the the real takeaway here is
it's your testosterone is supposed to
look like this. This is what natural
testosterone looks like. I'll I'll put a
big one up on the screen. Yeah. But
when you take a shot of something, if
it's cypionate or an enanthate, it lasts
between 10 and 14 days. So even the guys
that are like oh you got to split up
your dosage and do a small injection
every day. It's still It's still a
chemical that's going to last between 10
and 14 days in your system. So like
taking a microdose of a long-lasting
chemicals not doing anything really. I
mean, you're sticking more needles in
yourself I guess, but that's not
progress. Check out oral only the uh
there's
there's very little downside. I can't
say there's zero downside uh just cuz I
mean some somebody will notice some of
the side effects like like hematocrit
goes up, but it stays within normal
range.
>> I've actually recovered on a side note,
my FSH and LH hormones
>> Yeah.
>> I my blood work done the other day.
They're on the spectrum now and I
haven't used any HCG or HMG, just oral
only. Now, that is essentially your
natural your body's ability to produce
its natural testosterone.
>> Good.
>> And then for almost half a decade, I was
completely shut down. And mind you, I
did not take any HCG H because I'm not
I'm not trying to have a child right now
at this phase of my life. So, I was
like, let me just leave this off. But
then when I just recently got my blood
work, my FSH and LH has returned as well
as would would nothing other than just
being on all testosterone.
>> Yes, and
the
of what we know, the research has been
done so far, it is either
non-suppressive or less suppressive. So,
you will maintain
normal testicular function on this type
of TRT. I know like everybody want to
argue with me in the comments about
that, but uh you can read all the
documentation because it stays within
that bump. And I guess what I was going
to say about like the guy who wants to
take a super physiologic dosage. So,
here's the time of your day and here's
where the bump is in the morning. Well,
you can make the bump higher. And as we
see with very small amounts of
testosterone, we get a high bump. Like
we go to 2,300 ng to the deciliter,
which is
>> for a very short amount of time.
>> super physiologic, but it's over quick.
>> Yes. So, you saturate the receptor at
that very anabolic level.
>> Right.
>> And that maintains throughout the day.
So, you can go work out at 8:00 p.m. and
you will still get the same level of
pump.
>> Yeah, when you work out and what your
nutrition it doesn't doesn't make a
difference.
>> Because the receptors will saturate for
that 24-hour period.
>> Right. And you're just primed to grow.
>> Yes.
>> So, you you saturate the receptor, work
out whenever you want, make sure you get
the proper amount of protein, you're
going to grow every day. And And then I
Now Now, SHBG goes down instead of up,
which is sort of the opposite of what
happens with the long-term usage of most
anabolic androgenic compounds.
>> don't know that SHBG stands for sex
hormone binding globulin.
>> That's hormone binding globulin.
>> Yes.
>> Hormone Excuse me, yeah, hormone binding
globulin. Yes. So, and its job
essentially is to bind to free
testosterone and make it unusable. It's
your body's defense mechanism
>> against high testosterone.
>> Against high testosterone, abnormal
amounts of testosterone. So,
what happens is that ends up eventually
just making the testosterone you're
injecting useless over a long period of
time. With oral only, we don't have to
deal with that because
>> Well,
it falls so quickly that this is a
little bit of theory because what we see
is like my SHBG is 8.9. Normal SHBG is
40. Normal for somebody who's been on
TRT for a long time could be 120.
So, you want it towards 40, which means
you're you have a lot more free
testosterone. But, mine's at 8.9 and I I
believe and this is also a yours I Did
you get it checked?
>> I did.
Very low.
>> Very low, yeah.
>> Very low.
>> So,
because as
I think it's as the testosterone is
dropping off, your body's seeing that
you're losing testosterone, so it's
like, "Oh, we got to make this more
useful."
>> Well, and it's
>> But, the receptor sites are already
saturated, so you're almost like
doubling the amount of effect
>> Yeah.
>> because it's so much more
receptor activity
>> Yeah. Yep.
>> based on the falling SHBG.
>> It's in alignment with how your body
would be producing testosterone.
>> Yeah, yeah, that's ultimately like we're
just mirroring the same
>> So, this is back to when I was 25 again,
just, you know, artificially.
>> Yeah, the same bump. Just
>> Yeah.
>> you know.
>> It'll occur, and then we follow that.
>> I hope this helped.
>> No testicular shrinkage for me,
personally.
>> Yeah. That's good.
>> on a personal note, when I was on
cypionate, the testicles would shrink.
>> Yeah.
>> So, if that's important to you,
>> And
>> your testicles will not shrink on the
oral only.
>> And they bounce back. They bounce back.
>> Well, that has not happened to me yet.
Uh but I was on suppressive TRT
for over 20 years.
>> Okay. Yeah.
>> So, now
I at some point, basically when my wife
wanted to have a baby, I'll I'll run a
course of either enclomiphene and HCG or
kisspeptin is kind of the new direction
everybody's going.
>> Yeah.
>> I'll do that when Carolyn wants us to
make a kid.
>> Yeah.
>> If uh you have any questions, leave it
in the comments. Um I'll invite Akos to
the conversation and he can answer
questions. I can answer questions.
Thanks. We'll see you in the next one.
If this video helped you, I want you to
subscribe and follow. I'm going to put
out videos on a regular basis. I think
they're going to help a whole lot of
people, especially if you're one of
those people that doesn't just instantly
grow from lifting regular weights.
We've got the answer for you.